What is the history of the FDV?
The Flower Corso is the origin of the Harvest Festival. In 1902, it was under the leadership of members of the “Neuchâtel Cycling Club” wishing to mark the end of the harvest with an original parade that the 1st Edition of the Corso Fleuri was born. This parade, part of the intangible cultural heritage of humanity, is the pride and reputation of the city of Neuchâtel, its region and the canton. After more than a century and more than 90 editions, other cultural and festive events have been added. With the GUGGENMUSIK PROCESS ON FRIDAY EVENING AND WEEKEND, the CHILDREN'S PROCESS ON SATURDAY AFTERNOON, the NUMA-DROZ PLACE SCENE, the SHOW PYRO-MELODIC SATURDAY EVENING, The winegrowers' village on rue du Seyon. All these events take place in the middle of a multitude of stands, amid popular jubilation which attracts more than 300,000 people each year to this locality which usually has 35,000 inhabitants. The event takes place every year on the last weekend of September, from Friday evening to Sunday evening. Traditionally, on Sunday afternoon, the Corso Fleuri parades on Avenue du Premier-Mars. It attracts tens of thousands of spectators from all over Switzerland and elsewhere. Thanks to your support, sponsorship, partnership, we can continue our mission, year after year, remaining dynamic, innovative and adapting to our times. We are delighted to count you among our partners and sponsors, in order to benefit from a great collaboration for an event which is part of our canton and culture.
What is the atmosphere, the tone of the party?
t's a party to celebrate the harvest, to have fun and have a good time with friends. It is a tradition for all
self-respecting Neuchâtel residents to drink wine from the canton of Neuchâtel and to eat winegrower
steak (beef and horse meat). This is reflected throughout the festival and particularly highlighted on rue
du Seyon with the village of winegrowers who serve Neuchâtel wines and typical cantonal dishes. The party lasts three days with music for all tastes (including live music) which allows you to have fun until
the early hours. There is also a stage to promote Neuchâtel culture (place Numa-Droz). With dance
shows and DJs from the region providing a crazy atmosphere.
The election of Miss and Mister FDV also focuses on a more modern experience without physical selection
criteria.
The festival is planned for all categories of ages, lifestyle, community, sensations and therefore brings
together all layers of the population who come together in a festive manner.
There is something for all tastes, with quieter places like the winegrowers' village or the local lounge,
during the day with the children's procession or the corso, full of wonder
or thrill with the fireworks show, the carousels, Miss and Mister FDV or the Guggenmusik. There is
also the culinary aspect with dishes and drinks from various horizons. Finally the music, of different style and
culture. Even politicians participate to share a relaxed moment with the population. n addition, the harvest festival takes a decidedly more environmentally friendly (ecological)
and digital turn with the arrival of reusable tableware for payment by electronic bracelet. t is the event of the year in the city of Neuchâtel which is superbly located on the edge of the lake and
which awaits you like 300,000 other people for these three days of popular jubilation.
Here's what people are saying about it:
https://www.rts.ch/play/tv/12h45/video/la-fete-des-vendanges-de-neuchatel-bat-son-plein?urn=urn:rts:video:8943820
https://www.rts.ch/info/regions/neuchatel/10745566-plus-de-300000-personnes-a-la-fete-des-vendanges-de-neuchatel.html
What is the Neuchâtel Harvest Festival?
The Neuchâtel Harvest Festival will soon celebrate its 100th anniversary. This event, which celebrates
vines and wine, brings together more than 250 stands and more than 300,000 people each year
between Friday evening and Sunday evening in the city of Neuchâtel, during the last full weekend of
September. It is made up of fairgrounds, a pyro-melodic show, processions, a stage and a Corso
Fleuri listed as Swiss intangible heritage.
Who manages the activities of the Fête des Vendanges de Neuchâtel association?
The Fête des Vendanges association is managed by a central committee made up of 20 people,
including 5 who make up the management. Numerous sponsors and partners allow the event to
live and continue.
Do I have any other questions?
You can ask them directly by email to info@fete-des-vendanges.ch. You can also follow us on
Facebook and Instagram.
What is the program for the party on Friday?
6:00 p.m. OFFICIAL OPENING OF THE EVENT AND STANDS, From 6:00 p.m. MUSICAL
ANIMATION ON THE STAGE at Place Numa-Droz, 6:00 p.m. OPENING PROCESS OF THE
BROTHERHOODS at Town Hall, Place Numa-Droz, Place d'Armes, Rue du Seyon until 'at the Village
Vigneron, 7:00 p.m. OPENING SPEECH AND OFFICIAL PROCLAMATION OF THE WINNER
OF THE GERLE D'OR COMPETITION at the Village Vigneron, rue du Seyon, From 7:30 p.m. ANIMATION
ON THE STAGE OF THE VILLAGE WINEGROOM WITH GROUPS OF MUSICIANS AND
SINGERS (Rhythm and Blues , Funk, Soul, Blues, Jazz) at the Village Vigneron, rue du Seyon, 8:00
p.m. END OFFICIAL PART at the Village Vigneron, rue du Seyon, From 8:00 p.m. ANIMATION BY
GUGGENS - PERCUSSION GROUP Throughout the city, 3:00 a.m. END OF MUSIC, 4:00 a.m. STAND
CLOSURE.
What is the party program on Saturday?
11:00 a.m. OPENING OF THE STANDS Throughout the city, From 11:00 a.m. GUGGENS
ENTERTAINMENT Throughout the city, From 11:00 a.m. ENTERTAINMENT ON THE STAGE WITH
CONCERTS, SHOWS AND DJs at Place Numa-Droz, 2:30 p.m. CHILDREN'S PROCESS WITH
COMPETITION, PARTICIPATION OF BANDS AND GUGGENS , AS WELL AS CONFETTI TRUCKS
passing through the English Garden (training), Rue de l'Orangerie, Fbg de l'Hôpital, Rue de l'Hôtel-de-Ville,
Rue St-Honoré, Rue du Bassin, Place Numa-Droz , Av. du 1er Mars, Collège de la Promenade, 4:00 p.m. BATTLE OF
When does the fdv take place in 2023?
Where can you book the FDV bus?
From September 22 to 24, 2023 in Neuchâtel
CONFETTIS WITH CANON Place Numa Droz, From 4:00 p.m. FANFARES Throughout the city, From
6:00 p.m. ENTERTAINMENT ON THE STAGE OF THE VINEYARD VILLAGE WITH GROUPS OF
MUSICIANS AND SINGERS (Rhythm and Blues, Funk, Soul, Blues, Jazz) Winegrower Village, rue du Seyon, 8:30 p.m.
Where does the FDV take place?
How long does the fdv last?
By internet, see https://fete-des-vendanges.ch/reservation-salle-fdv/
Room with capacity for 20, 25 and 100 people. They have all the equipment necessary for your work
meetings, as well as an equipped kitchen, a smoking room and 2 WCs.
What is the theme of the 2023 edition of the fdv?
Which room can we reserve?
Three days from Friday September 22 at 6 p.m. to Sunday September 24 at midnight
What is the program for the party on Sunday?
11:00 a.m. OPENING OF THE STANDS Throughout the city, From 11:00 a.m. ANIMATION OF GUGGENS
AND FANFARES Throughout the city, From 12:00 p.m. ANIMATION ON THE STAGE WITH CONCERTS,
SHOWS AND DJ Place Numa-Droz, 2:00 p.m. PRE-MUSICAL CORSO Av. Rue des Beaux-Arts, 3:00 p.m.
GRAND FLOWER CORSO ON THE THEME “VEND’ANGES & DEMONS” Av. du 1er mars and Rue des
Beaux-Arts, From 5:00 p.m. ENTERTAINMENT ON THE STAGE OF THE VINEYARD VILLAGE
WITH GROUPS OF MUSICIANS AND SINGERS (Rythm and Blues, Funk, Soul, Blues, Jazz)q Village
Vigneron, rue du Seyon, 6:00 p.m. CONFETTI BATTLE Place Numa Droz, 11:00 p.m. END OF MUSIC, 24:00
STANDS CLOSING
https://fete-des-vendanges.ch/reservez-le-bus-de-la-fete-des-vendanges/
How to reserve a fdv room?
In downtown Neuchâtel
PYRO-MELODIC SHOW In the bay of Evole, 3:00 a.m. END OF MUSIC, 4:00 a.m.
STAND CLOSURE.
What is the program for the party on Sunday?
11:00 a.m. OPENING OF THE STANDS Throughout the city, From 11:00 a.m. ANIMATION OF GUGGENS
AND FANFARES Throughout the city, From 12:00 p.m. ANIMATION ON THE STAGE WITH CONCERTS,
SHOWS AND DJ Place Numa-Droz, 2:00 p.m. PRE-MUSICAL CORSO Av. Rue des Beaux-Arts, 3:00 p.m.
GRAND FLOWER CORSO ON THE THEME “VEND’ANGES & DEMONS” Av. du 1er mars and Rue des
Beaux-Arts, From 5:00 p.m. ENTERTAINMENT ON THE STAGE OF THE VINEYARD VILLAGE
WITH GROUPS OF MUSICIANS AND SINGERS (Rythm and Blues, Funk, Soul, Blues, Jazz)q Village
Vigneron, rue du Seyon, 6:00 p.m. CONFETTI BATTLE Place Numa Droz, 11:00 p.m. END OF MUSIC, 24:00
STANDS CLOSING
How long does the fdv last?
Three days from Friday September 22 at 6 p.m. to Sunday September 24 at midnight
When does the fdv take place in 2023?
From September 22 to 24, 2023 in Neuchâtel
Where does the FDV take place?
In downtown Neuchâtel
Where can you book the FDV bus?
In downtown Neuchâtelhttps://fete-des-vendanges.ch/reservez-le-bus-de-la-fete-des-vendanges/
How to reserve a fdv room?
By internet, see https://fete-des-vendanges.ch/reservation-salle-fdv/
Which room can we reserve?
Room with capacity for 20, 25 and 100 people. They have all the equipment necessary for your work
meetings, as well as an equipped kitchen, a smoking room and 2 WCs.
What is the theme of the 2023 edition of the fdv?
Vend'angels and demons
Who is the artist of the poster for the 2023 edition of the fdv?
The artist is “L’Ange Violent”, aka Joakim Monnier @ange_violent
How many fdvs were there?
The 2023 edition is the 96th fdv
How to access the fdv shop?
By internet see: https://fete-des-vendanges.sumupstore.com/
What can I buy at fdv shops?
FDV 2023 poster and the FDV support bracelet
Where are the fdv cash registers?
At the market square, rue du seyon, the Naef terrace, the natural history museum, the statue of the republic and
avenue du 1er Mars
What are the traffic restrictions in the city?
The city center is blocked by car traffic for the duration of the festival as well as part of the east-west axis (Avenue
du 1er Mars).
Does the market take place during the FDV?
Yes
Are the stores open during the fdv?
In principle yes, but it is advisable to contact the manager.
Who organizes the fdv
See website:https://fete-des-vendanges.ch/organisation/
What parking lots are available?
Parking at Place Pury (closed on Saturday evenings during the pyro-melodic show), at the Seyon, at the port
(closed on Sundays from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.), at the train station, at La Maladière, at the City center (see http://www.parkingsdeneuchatel.ch/ ,from the Esplanade de la Maladière (see website
neuchatelville.ch).
How to contact the harvest festival?
Outside of the harvest festival, you can contact us via the link:https://fete-des-vendanges.ch/contact/ 
Who is on the central committee of the FDV?
FETE DIRECTION: DF MEMBER AND SPOKESPERSON Eric Leuba, DF MEMBER Carlo Monnat,
DF MEMBER Raphaël Sandoz, DF MEMBER Naveen Begni, DF MEMBER Bruna Raccio, contact: direction@fete-des-vendanges.ch
COMMISSION PRESIDENT: GUESTS-RECEPTION Rémy Voirol, SPONSOR Catherine DuPasquier,
MISS AND MISTER Céline Triboulet, TECHNICAL STANDS Corinne Rothen, VVTG Patrick Vaudroz,
CORSO FLEURI Yvan Fluhmann, GUGGENMUSIK Christian Kaeser, CHILDREN'S PROCESS
Natacha Thiebaud, FANFARES Yann Benoit, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Naveen Begni,
CASHLESS AND TECHNOLOGY Renato Da Silva, PLACE NUMA DROZ Sandro Lizzi, CITY
DELEGATE Daniel Veuve, EVENTS Raphaël Sandoz, SECURITY AND CONSTRUCTIONS Carlo
Monnat, PYROMELODIC FIRE Eric Leuba, COMMUNICATION Alexia Quesada Paz, contact:info@fete-des-vendanges.ch
Who is the 2023 guest of honor?
The 2023 guest of honor is Xamax whose stand is at rue du Bassin
Who is the official partner of the fdv for 2023?
Viteos SA, a regional company directly to you. The company is very active in the development of
renewable energies and offers its customers services enabling them to implement the 2050
energy strategy, such as photovoltaics, energy efficiency and heat pumps. It was obvious with the
sustainable development put in place by the Harvest Festival that Viteos became an official partner
and worked together on these new projects.
Where is the official FDV tent?
The Fête des Vendanges has taken over the management of the official tent, set up on the Place des
Halles, and invites you to find local dishes there. It will also serve as a canteen for our volunteers,
our guggens and marching bands and will host our official meal of the event on Sunday at noon.
What are the opening hours of the FDV office?
Wednesday, September 20 from 12:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., Thursday, September 21 from 10:00 a.m. to
8:00 p.m., Friday, September 22 from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m., Saturday, September 23 from 8:00 a.m. to
5:00 a.m., Sunday, September 24 from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m.
What is the telephone number for the FDV office?
032 724 07 87
Where is the FDV office located?
Peristyle (City Hall)
What is the Gerle d’Or?
The FDV competition for the best winegrower in the canton of Neuchâtel
Who is the winner of the Gerle d’Or 2023?
Cave des Coteaux, Boudry
How many Gerle d'or there were?
27
What wine (cellar) is there in Neuchâtel?
The wine cellars of the Neuchâtel vineyard are made up of: see page:https://fete-des-vendanges.ch/les-encaveurs-du-vignoble-neuchatelois/
Who are the winners of the Miss and Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel competition?
The winners of the 2023 competition are: Miss Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel: Maeva Cosandier,
1st runner-up: Valéria Abaunza Agudelo, 2nd runner-up: Marie-Madeleine Gueissaz
Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel: Ivan Buonocore, 1st runner-up: Pasquale Civitillo, 2nd runner-
up: Loris Profico
What is the Miss and Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel competition?
The values and traditions inherent to the competition and the Harvest Festival still remain at the
heart of this 2024 edition and are today structured around a more modern and up-to-date experience.
Now open to women and men, without physical selection criteria, the competition aims to celebrate
diversity, authenticity and self-confidence. Indeed, the committee wishes to further highlight the
power of inclusion, cooperation and diversity. Our candidates are involved in much more than a
beauty contest. They must practice other, more varied fields such as dance, sport, challenges,
community service or even public speaking. A dense schedule with a comprehensive approach
that makes this experience an incredible human adventure.
How does the Miss and Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel competition take place?
A casting takes place in February to select the candidates (on average 116 per edition) and the election
in October after the harvest festival. The candidates have 9 months to train and train, in order to offer
this fabulous spectacle during the election. During these 9 months of participation in the competition, candidates receive image and posture maintenance courses, participate in photo shoots, and challenge videos in order to develop their know-how. or know the qualities required of a true Neuchâtel resident in order to become ambassadors of the
canton and not just a physical image. Candidates for the title meet our partners and sponsors, members of the Fête des Vendanges
management and also support internal projects. At the end of the election, a real spectacle which combines dance, personal presentation videos, parade and
interview, 3 candidates are crowned and thus obtain the titles of Miss & Mister, 1st and 2nd runner-up, 1st
& 2nd dolphin and cover a year of reign, i.e. the year 2024 for the 2023 edition.
What are the admission criteria for the Miss and Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel competition?
The competition has existed since 1984 and is part of the traditions dear to the Harvest Festival. Previously only reserved for women, it opened to men in 2019. hat year, all traditional beauty criteria were also abandoned to make way for a dynamic competition focused
more on personality than physique. The obligation to reside in the canton of Neuchâtel and to be of legal age are the only criteria required by
the competition.
When are the results announced?
Saturday October 21, 2023, a press conference is organized on the morning of the 22nd with the
written press ArcInfo
What is the history of the Miss and Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel competition?
We are now a new, young and energetic Commission which aims to modernize and reinstate the notoriety of
this competition in the hearts of Neuchâtel residents. Human experience and personal enrichment are the values that motivate us and that are close to our hearts. It is in a warm and dynamic atmosphere that the team constituting the Miss & Mister Fête des
Vendanges Neuchâtel Commission evolves to the rhythm of the events linked to the competition. The election,
the consecration of a year of work and reflection around a common objective: to make this evening a
real success. Some members joined the team in order to consolidate the structure of the competition in a holistic approach,
others showed their confidence by reiterating their commitment for another year. Each member contributes,
with their personality and skills, to make this experience a unique adventure. Taking on challenges and sharing extraordinary experiences together are the criteria that define their
motivation and passion put to the benefit of fourteen superb personalities from the canton 
When is the election evening for Miss and Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel 2024?
October 21, 2023 at 8 p.m. for the door opening and 8:30 p.m. for the ceremony. At the Passage Theater,
Passage Maximilien-de-Meuron 4, 2000 Neuchâtel.
Where does the Miss and Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel 2024 election evening take place?
At the Passage Theater, Passage Maximilien-de-Meuron 4, 2000 Neuchâtel.
Where to buy tickets for the Miss and Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel 2024 election?
https://www.strapontin.ch/
What prices for the Miss and Mister Fête des Vendanges Neuchâtel 2024 election evening?
Adult 55frs, Teenager (12 years to 17 years): 25frs
Where to register for the partnership?
https://fete-des-vendanges.ch/espace-partenaires/
How many stands are there?
This year (2023), a record has been reached: nearly 300 stands will come to brighten up our event,
among them, our associations and the Winegrowers' Village, a true signature of the FDV, will take their place
again for the greatest pleasure of visitors. Discovery, sharing and innovation will be the key words. The stands
reflect the very essence of our event: promoting the diversity and passion of our exhibitors. Whether you are
looking for new things, traditions or simply friendly moments, there will be something for everyone
What fairgrounds or carousels are there?
They are part of the Harvest Festival family and perpetuate a tradition that delights not only the youngest, but
also the oldest. We are pleased to welcome the following carousels:
Rotunda, Number One, Bourquin Bumper Cars, Waterballs, Pipe and skill games, Fantasia, Las
Vegas, Churros, Confectionery, Super Magic, Formula 1, Magic Castle, T-Rex Tower, Ice Palace, Salto-
Trampoline , Paris-Dakar, Safari, Magic Canard, Autos-Bumpers Jeanneret, Coco Bongo, Shooting game,
Werstern-Express, Grasshopper, Deep Zone, Churros, 6D Cinema, Crazy Cars, Break Dance, Chaos
How many carousels are there?
30 with stands
Where are the carousels (fairground) located?
On Place du Port and Place Alexis-Marie-Piaget.
Where is the winegrowers’ village located?
At rue du seyon
What is the winegrowers’ village?
A friendly and traditional place where you can taste wines as well as local products, which allows the Neuchâtel
wine tradition to be perpetuated.
What program at the stage of the winegrowers' village?
Friday 6:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m. Groovemix, Rhythm and Blues, Funk, Soul, Blues, Saturday 6:00 p.m. -
11:00 p.m. Boston IVY, Jazz, Blues, Soul, Sunday 5:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. KVO Band, Apéro Jazz, Jam Session
Which stand are at the winegrowers’ village?
Engel Wines & Cantine Dardel | Escargot Rouge – Guest Swiss Wine Vaud, Vins Gerber & Le
Silex | Caves de la Béroche & EpiQure | Domaine Christalain & GSM, Domaine St-Sébaste & FC
Saint-Blaise | SionWine.ch & Guest Swiss Wine Valais, La Brasserie de La Meute | Domaine Grillette
& Grisoni | Cave des Lauriers & Taste and Region, Nicolet & Vouga Wines | Berger Fish Market |
Peat House | Domaine Divernois, Absinthe La Valote Martin | Boucherie du Palais – Guest Régio
Garantie Genève,Cave de la Ville de Genève – Guest Swiss Wine Genève| Caves de la Ville
Neuchâtel | Brasserie B'art
What is the local lounge?
It is a table reserved for 2 hours for 8 people to eat a raclette or fish menu.
How to book for the local lounge?
http://www.neuchatel-vins-terroir.ch/FDV
What price for the local lounge?
Raclette package - CHF 290.- (for 8 people) including: 8 support bracelets, 8 raclette meals, 2
bottles of wine (Chasselas and/or Pinot Noir) from Domaine Divernois, 8 glass deposits Fish Package - CHF 390.- (for 8 people) including: 8 support bracelets, 8 fried fish and chips
meals, 1 bottle of wine (Chasselas and/or Pinot Noir) from Nicolet Vins and one from Vouga Vins,
8 glass instructions
What is the numa-droz square scene?
Come discover Place Numa Droz with its scene full of energy. This stage which will host
dance and music, in order to promote Neuchâtel culture.
What is the partner area?
This space, designed especially for the weekend, is aimed at businesses wishing to support the
celebration.
Where is the partner area located?
On the steps of the college at Place Numa-Droz.
Where is the partner area located?
Register now: https://fete-des-vendanges.ch/espace-partenaires.
What does the partner area offer?
This year we have planned for our partners: A high stand for better visibility of the stage, private and covered
access throughout the weekend, an aperitif buffet which will be offered from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Friday, from
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. as well as from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, private toilets for the stand
What is the program at Place Numa-Droz on Friday?
6:00 p.m. PARTY OPENING, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. DJ LIVE - DJ Kurios, 8:00 p.m. - 9:50 p.m. DJ LIVE - DJ Raph Claw, 9:50 p.m. - 11:40 p.m. DJ LIVE - DJ Rino, 11:40 p.m. - 01:30 a.m. DJ LIVE - DJ Fada, 01:30 a.m. - 03:00 a.m. DJ LIVE - DJ Kurios
What is the program for Place Numa-Droz on Saturday?
11:00 OPENING PARTY, 11:00 - 11:30 DANCE SHOW - Fréquence Rock, 12:00 - 1:30 p.m.
CONCERT - Frer Duo, 2:00 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. DANCE SHOW - Fréquence Rock, 2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m
CHILDREN'S PROCESS, 4:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. CONFETTI BATTLE, 4:30 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. CONCERT
FANFARES - Stageband by Showband.ch, 5:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. DJ LIVE - DJ The Frenchies, 8:00 p.m. -
21:50 DJ LIVE - DJ Rino, 21:50 - 23:40 DJ LIVE - DJ Raph Claw, 23:40 - 01:30 DJ LIVE - DJ Rino, 01:30 -
03:00 DJ LIVE - DJ Fada.
What is the program for Place Numa-Droz on Sunday?
11:00 OPENING PARTY, 12:00 - 12:30 DANCE SHOW - Groove Academy, 1:00 - 2:30 p.m.
CONCERT - BBM 74, 3:00 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. DANCE SHOW - Rock Frequency, 3:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. FLOWER
CORSO, 5:00 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. DANCE SHOW - Rock Frequency, 6:00 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. BATTLE OF
CONFETTIS, 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. MISS&MISTER FDV NE PRESENTATION, 8:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m. LIVE
DJ - DJ Rino and DJ Fada.
How to pay at carousels?
Payment at carousels will only be possible with cash or debit/credit card. Wristbands are not valid for this place.
How to pay at the Neuchâtel Harvest Festival?
You simply need to obtain a bracelet from the stands and associations participating in the Festival or from the
transN ticket offices. The payment bracelet is sold at the price of CHF 10.- and allows you to access the event
free of charge by public transport (see zones).
A place at Corso Fleuri is also offered with the bracelet. You can charge your bracelet before arriving at the
event so as not to wait at the checkouts! Another bracelet will be distributed during the event at the
checkouts with an activation fee of CHF 2.-
How do I charge my bracelet with TWINT?
Do not open the TWINT app to recharge your bracelet. Open an app that links QR codes, or simply the camera
on your iPhone. Select the amount to recharge, and then the credit card or twint option will be offered to you.
Is creating an account mandatory?
No, you can recharge your card: before the party at all transN counters in the canton, directly at the recharge points
during the party, now by simply scanning the QR on your bracelet
Is it possible to use the bracelet from another event?
No, it is impossible to use a bracelet other than the one provided for the Harvest Festival
Are there a charge for the bracelets?
The bracelets at your disposal until the weekend of the party are blue bracelets sold by the stands at the price of
10.00 CHF and they have the following advantages: support the Neuchâtel Associations, do not wait at the
checkouts during the party for the recharging of the bracelet, free transport depending on the bracelet zone
(10/11/14/15/30), 1 standing place at the Corso Fleuri on Sunday, No activation fees for the first charge before
September 16, 2023
The bracelets available exclusively during the Holiday weekend will be orange colored bracelets and 2.00 CHF
activation fee will be deducted on the first load
Can I recover the balance of my bracelet?
Yes from Monday September 25 until October 31, 2023. You must create an account and you must indicate the
number of your bracelet (on the back). The system will then recognize the balance on your bracelet. Next, you will
need to enter your IBAN, as well as the BIC code of your bank. Finally, the refund will be made within 5 to 7 days
(10 to 15 days if there is an error in the IBAN and/or BIC)
How do I check my bracelet balance?
During the Festival weekend at all stands, the balance of your bracelet can be displayed by holding your bracelet
close to their devices. Or now, once your bracelet has been purchased, simply create an account by indicating the
code of your FDV bracelet: https://fete-des-vendanges.ch/bracelets/#comptebracelet
Is it possible to pay at the stands with Twint, credit or debit card?
No, payment at the stands can only be made using the FDV bracelet (except for fairgrounds and itinerants).
Do children need an FDV support bracelet to access Corso Fleuri?
The bracelet becomes compulsory only from 12 years old (free up to 12 years old).
Is the bracelet mandatory to use transport during the FDV?
The support bracelet is compulsory from 6 years old to be able to benefit from free transport over the
entire weekend (in the areas indicated). People with a transport subscription only need the bracelet for special races organized by the FDV (outside
usual hours).
What happens if my bracelet is stolen or lost?
If you have created an account on the event website, you can request to have your bracelet
blocked by going to the party office located at the Town Hall. You can create your account: either before going to the event by entering the sequence of 6
bracelet letters (back). This identification operation is necessary to allow your bracelet to be blocked. If you have not
created an account and associated your bracelet, blocking will be impossible.Your bracelet is like your wallet: if you lose it, the money stored on it will also be lost. It can be
recovered as long as an account has been created. 
For top-up, do I have to pay after September 15, 2023 CHF 2.00 for each top-up?
Not only on the first recharge
What is the minimum amount to charge?
No minimum
What is the maximum amount to charge?
Up to 500.
Is the bracelet waterproof to withstand water for 3 days?
Yes, the bracelet supports water without any problem.
What is the minimum amount that can be recovered from your bracelet?
No minimum, you can be reimbursed the full balance of your bracelet directly from the Fête des
Vendanges website.
Refund: I must not have entered my IBAN?
Top-up via TWINT: Your balance is refunded directly to your TWINT account.
Reloading with a single Credit Card: Your balance is refunded directly to your credit card.
Reloading (by several methods cash, Twint, credit card, etc.): The amount will be reimbursed
directly to your Twint and/or Credit Card in relation to the amount loaded, in the event of a
balance you must indicate an IBAN.
Reloading by Credit Card and Twint: You will need to indicate an IBAN for reimbursement.
Reloading by Multiple Credit Cards: The total amount debited on your first card will be credited
to this one, the balance will then be paid to the other cards according to the amounts recharged.
Refund: My balance is unavailable?
In fact, we have not yet been able to reconstruct the complete history of your consumption to be
able to display your balance. This is explained by the fact that cashless devices are not not all synchronized yet. Try to log in to your cashless account again in 24 hours. If the
problem persists, get back to us.
Refund: Chip number problem?
Information. The chip number does not contain any numbers, only letters.
Refund: I have a virtual card and I can't get a refund?
Reimbursement on a virtual card is only possible if you have recharged your account online
with it. Otherwise, reimbursement is only possible on a real bank card.
What payment method is there at FDV?
Payments at stands at the Harvest Festival will only be possible with FDV bracelets.
Payments with cash and bank cards are not authorized, except for showmen and
itinerants.
What benefits does the support bracelet give?
It supports Neuchâtel associations, no waiting at checkouts, free transport (zone
10/11/14/15/30), 1 standing place at the Sunday flower parade, no activation fees during
the first change before on 16.09.2023.
Where to get the support bracelet?
You can obtain a blue FDV support bracelet from your favorite association/stand or at
each transN counter in the canton. These bracelets are available to you at the price of
CHF 10.00.
Are there other bracelets than the support one?
During the Festival, there will be an orange FDV bracelet available, without benefits with a
one-time activation cost of CHF 2.00 on the first charge.
How to recharge the bracelet?
You can recharge your bracelet with cash and cards at the recharging points at the main
entrances to the Festival. We encourage you to charge your support bracelet before the
Festival to avoid waiting for the big day. You have several options for charging your
bracelet: from the website: www.fete-des-vendanges.ch/bracelets, 
by
downloading our application: Harvest Festival, by scanning the QR code on the
bracelet from your smartphone, at each transN counter in the canton.
What are the charging point hours?
FRIDAY from 12:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. (02:00 a.m. for the Place du Marché cash register), SATURDAY
from 10:00 a.m. to 00:00 a.m. (02:00 a.m. for the Place du Marché cash register), SUNDAY from 10:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Please note that cash transfers can be made until 00:00 a.m. maximum or at the
permanent cash register at the market place until 03:00 a.m.
How do I get my balance refunded?
You can recover the balance of your bracelet from Monday September 25 until October 31, 2023. All you
have to do is go to the website: http://www.fete-des-vendanges.ch/bracelets,
and create an account. Reimbursements are only made by bank transfer.
What is the price of the deposit?
The deposit price is CHF 2.- per glass
How do I get my deposit back?
The deposit is returned to you on your FDV bracelet when you return the glass to a stand that sells drinks.
Can I return my glass at any stand?
Yes, you can return glasses in all stands that sell drinks, except for long drink and absinthe glasses, these 2 types
of glasses can only be returned to stands that use this type of glass
How many glasses can I cancel at one time?
In order to avoid the theft of glasses, you will only be able to recover your deposit if you purchased the cup(s) with
your FDV bracelet.
This method makes it possible to limit the theft of glasses and facilitates logistical and security
management in our event.
What is the deposit on glasses?
Each glass will be deposited CHF 2.00 on your bracelet. All you have to do is bring your glass back to the
Festival stands to collect your deposit! All the information on our site at:http://www.fete-des-vendanges.ch/verres
What are the opening hours for returning a drink (returnable)?
FRIDAY from 6:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m., SATURDAY from 7:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m., SUNDAY from 6:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.
Where can I buy tickets for the flower parade?
Tickets are on sale at the Société de la Navigation counters at the Port of Neuchâtel, at the transN counters in the
canton and on our website at: billetterie.fete-des-vendanges.ch (seated places only), then also at the
corso ticket offices on Sunday September 24.
What is the flower parade?
It’s a procession with music groups, flames, smoke, articulated floats
and flower floats on a 2km route
History of the flower parade?
The first one took place in 1902, see history of the festival
What route does the corso take?
t starts from the Firestone tower roundabout for a route of almost 2km between avenue du 1er Mars and rue des Beaux-Arts.
Where does the parade take place?
In Neuchâtel, between avenue du 1er Mars and rue des Beaux-Arts.
What time/day does the corso take place?
From 2:00 p.m. – 2:45 p.m. with the pre-corso and from 3 p.m. for the corso on Sunday September
24, 2023.
What is the theme of the parade?
It is identical to that of the party: the Vend'anges et demons theme.
What is the price of tickets?
Seat purchased before 09.23.2023: 25 francs, seat purchased on 09.24.2023: 30 francs, standing place:
10 francs. Places are free for children up to 12 years old. With the FDV support badge you get a free
standing place.
What is the grand corso?
The grand procession with 16 flower floats inspired by the Vend'anges et Demons theme, surrounded by
brass bands, circuses, entertainment and music. These tanks will take you on a journey into a fantastic
universe. This grand procession is one of the last flower parades in the world. It will offer you a breathtaking
hour of show for a good time with the family and admire some of the most impressive self-propelled
flower floats.
What is the order of the corso?
1 GUGGEN Sambalou, 2 ANIMATION HOTZ opening garage, 3 ANIMATION The
From 2:00 p.m. – 2:45 p.m. with the pre-corso and from 3 p.m. for the corso on Sunday September
24, 2023.
History of the flower parade?
Commander, his escort and the official banner, 4 FANFARE ShowBand Les Armourins (NE),
5 CHART Opening float 175th March 1st March, 6 ANIMATION The Neuchâtel Wine Youth, 7 CHARCNAV, 8 ANIMATION The Confrérie du Bon-Pain and the Confrérie du Gruyère, 9 GUGGEN Les Rebbiboel's, 10 ANIMATION Moudon confetti cannon, 11 ANIMATION The standard bearers of the 4 Bacchic Brotherhoods and the Governors of Bacchic brotherhoods, 12 CHAR The winner of the Gerle d'Or, 13 FANFARE Military music association Neuchâtel St-Blaise (NE), 14 ANIMATION Boxer beer, 15 FANFARE Fanfare l'Ancienne de Cornol (JU), 16 ANIMATION Salvatore Ice-creams, 17 CHAR Char de la Boudrysia, 18 CHAR Boudry Firefighters' Tank, 19 FANFARE Harmoniemusik Flawil (SG), 20 CHAR Parliament of
Neuchâtel Youth (PJNE), 21 ANIMATION The flag throwers of Asta, 22 CHAR RTN, 23 GUGGEN La mystic vallon's, 24 CHAR Zofingue, 25 ANIMATION Kervan cie presents haliad,
26 FANFARE Berne Piping Society, 27 CHAR Ville de Neuchâtel, 28, FANFARE Brass Band du
Saut du Doubs (F-CH), 29 CHAR ElectroPro, 30 ANIMATION Sion confetti cannon, 31 CHAR Float of
the guest of honor , 35 GUGGEN The click of the AJT, 36 ANIMATION The Fire Eaters, 37 CHAR Viteos, 38 CHAR PMP, 39
CHAR PMP, 40 ANIMATION The Sweepers of the City of Neuchâtel
Where do the corso flowers come from?
The flowers come from Holland and Switzerland. All the greenery is from Neuchate!
Who are the partners of the corso?
The partners of the corso for this year 2023 are for the floats: Philipp Morris, Rtn,
Where can I see the bus/train/tram timetables?
During usual service hours, the FDV support bracelet (CHF 10.00) allows you to travel freely
on public transport in zones 10/11/14/15/30 of the ONDE VERTE tariff community from Friday
09.22.2023 at 4:00 p.m. to Sunday 24.09.2023
Information on routes and timetables on www.transn.ch/fete-des-vendanges and on www.cff.ch .
Electrpro, Xamax, Arc info, Zofingue, Neuchâtel canton walking association, La gerle d'or, Youth
parliament, Viteos, City of Neuchâtel
What's new this year?
The new features are: flames, dance, circus, smoke, sustainable development, ecology, recovery
What means of transport to go to the party?
Choose the train and the bus which are more ecological than the car (and save you from having your
license revoked if you have drunk too much alcohol).
What disruption in transport due to the holiday?
Be careful, several streets are blocked in the city center and public transport service is disrupted. See
website: https://www.transn.ch/fete-des-vendanges/
Where can I see the bus/train/tram timetables?
nformation on routes and timetables on http://www.transn.ch/fete-des-vendanges and on http://www.cff.ch/
What transport ticket should I have during the party?
During usual service hours, the FDV support bracelet (CHF 10.00) allows you to travel freely
on public transport in zones 10/11/14/15/30 of the ONDE VERTE tariff community from Friday
09.22.2023 at 4:00 p.m. to Sunday 24.09.2023 last race. The bracelet is required to travel on special shuttles after 12:30 a.m.
Which area is served during the festival?
Return safely thanks to the numerous special transN and CFF shuttles which serve the coast, Val-de-
Ruz, Val-de-Travers and the Neuchâtel Mountains on the nights of Friday to Saturday and Saturday to Sunday.
What to do to avoid theft during the fdv?
Pickpockets hide in the crowd and the following advice is essential: lock your vehicle and do not leave
valuable objects visible inside. Don't let never leave your handbag unattended, put your wallet and your mobile phone in a pocket that is difficult to
access, only take the essentials in your wallet, report any suspicious behavior to the police without delay (117)
and report more information possible.
Where to file a complaint?
Neuchâtel Police, rue des Poudrières 14, 2000 Neuchâtel, 032 889 90 00
Procedure to follow in case of theft?
During: give what the person wants, do not pursue them, after: file a complaint with the police
What is the policy number?
117 or ? on locked phone
What is the fire department number?
118
What to do in case of fire ?
Call the fire brigade (118)
What number in case of life-threatening emergency?
144
Where are the first aid stations during the festival?
The SIS will have three posts with emergency medicine, they will be at Place Pury, Les Terreaux and La
Promenade.
What number for poisoning?
145
Or bring a found object?
Peristyle (City Hall
What can I do to make it easier to find my child?
Identification bracelets will be distributed at recharging points to put on the child's wrist with the number
of the person to contact.
What is the procedure for lost children?
Bring the lost child to: Permanence FDV – 032 724 07 87 and the child will be taken care of
I lost my child, what should I do?
Lost children call the FDV hotline – 032 724 07 87
Is sleep welcome?
You had a great party and you no longer have the strength to go home? Did you miss your train?
Too tired to drive? Do you want to rest before leaving? Home DODO offers a sheltered place for all those who
want to sleep somewhere other than on the street. Home DODO is a place of rest, but also a stand distributing
its legendary tea and other drinks, as well as sandwiches and pastries generously offered by several
bakeries in the region. It is noted that Accueil DODO is a Christian presence.
Where is the sleep reception located?
You will find us in the premises of the Rochette church, Avenue de la Gare 18 (on the right when going up to the
station). We are open from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Friday to Saturday and Saturday to Sunday nights.
How to contact the dodo reception?
Telephone contact during the party: +41 (0)79 863 57 47
